---
title: "Before Lockdown."
id: "TIL 0162"
date: "2020-03-26"
---

South Africa goes into lockdown as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic tonight at midnight for 21 days. These are some of my thoughts going into this. I hope to revist this in 21 days to see what has changed.

### President Ramaphosa

I am proud of President Ramaphosa for making the decision to lock South Africa down for 21 days. With hindsight, one could make the case that the lockdown should have been made a week ago, but chances are the country would not have supported such a decision when the case numbers were still well under 100. As of yesterday (25/03/2020), cases were up to 709 and climibing fast, far faster for comfort. To my eyes, we are on the brink of the tipping point. I hope that 21 days will sufficiently bend the curve to save many lives. I don't know will happen after 21 days, I suspect the lockdown may continue. 

### Remote Work

The pandemic has drastically accelerated the adoption of remote working across the world by many years. With companies forced to use the means at their disposal, I hope that employers will discover they do not need everyone to be in the office, Monday to Friday, 07:00-17:00 just to be productive and effective. Having spent many years and countless hours in traffic, I feel "rush hour" is one the worst losses of productive and personal or family time there is. Health, family, hobbies, cooking meals, these are all things that in the bigger picture, are far more valuable that forcing everyone to rush off to work at the exact same time. 

### Airport Security

The 9/11 terror attacks left a permanent imprint on our experiences of air travel and airports. I wonder whether this pandemic will lead to permanent installations and measures to scan and track possible outbreaks before they spread. In the same way that the modern era of terror attacks has permeated the nature of travel, I think that it is likely that the future of travel will be as influenced by this pandemic. 

### Wet Markets

I hope that wetmarkets around the world are permanently banned at best. Or at minimum, that far stricter controls, and more onerous travel restrictions are placed on any passengers travelling to and from such areas. The total cost, both in lives and economically, of this outbreak far outweigh any benefits that might be had from shopping at, or eating produce from wet markets. 

### Consumerism

My generation has never lived through a moment such as this. While there are many people that live in dire and harsh conditions, knowing that their lives can be disrupted and interfered with at any moment, the idea that "life as we know it" could be so fundamentally and drastically altered has not been apparent for those of us enjoying more privileged lives. While there are likely to be many horrible consequences of this pandemic, I hope that it can also change us for the better. More humility before the foces of nature would be a good start. There is far more to life than all the material things we are now without (for the timebeing?). I hope that we can learn to appreciate what we do have more than what we don't. 

### Leadership

This is a time where true leaders emerge. There are many "leaders" around the world not making the difficult decisions required and it will cost lives. I hope that, after the next 21 days, that worldwide, it will be clear who is worthy to lead, who is not. The lives of the many are not worth the fragile egos and lies of the very few. 
