---
title: "Binary Trees: Part 1"
id: "TIL 0075"
date: "2019-01-15"
---

I have been avoiding this. Ever since I first encountered the binary tree in the Daily Coding Problems, I have been procrastinating on this topic. If ever my impostor syndrome regarding my abilities or designation as a 'programmer' had effect it is in situations like this. But, I can't avoid it forever, and you every journey starts with one step, so here we go!

### Binary Trees

A binary tree is a data structure that has at most, two children. Since a binary tree can only have at most 2 children, we name them left or right. 

#### Use Cases

* Typically trees are used to store hierarchical information - ie. files in a computer
* Manipulate hierarchical data
* Make information easy to search (tree traversal)
* Manipulate sorted lists of data
* Multi-stage decision making
* Router algorithms

#### Attributes

* Moderate access/search (quicker than linked list, slower than arrays)
* Moderate insertion/deletion (quicker than arrays, slower than unordered linked lists)
* Trees don’t have an upper limit on number of nodes as nodes are linked using pointers. 


#### Properties

A node on a tree contains the following: 

1. Data
2. A pointer to the left child
3. A pointer to the right child

#### Terms

* A node with no parent is the root node. 
* A node with no children is called a leaf. 


#### Code

Below is the most basic definition of a node in a binary tree: 


```
class Node {
	constructor(data) {
		this.data = data;
		this.left = null;
		this.right = null;
	}

    // Todo
}
```

To be continued...


Hat Tip to [Geeks for Geeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/binary-tree-set-1-introduction/)
