---
title: "Using Decorators with Flask-RESTplus."
id: "TIL 0143"
date: "2020-01-07"
---

On a recent project, I have been using [Flask-RESTplus](http://flask-restplus.readthedocs.io/) for building and auto-documenting an API. Flask-RESTplus comes with [Swagger](https://swagger.io/) integration out the box and works in a similar way to [Flask-RESTful](https://flask-restful.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). 

Unlike [Flask](https://www.palletsprojects.com/p/flask/), which uses decorators with functions to describe API resources. Flask-RESTplus (and Flask-RESTful) use Python classes along with decorators to represent your API resources. 

I had a decorator from a previous Flask project that I wanted to re-use in my Flask-RESTplus API and was curious about how easily the implementation would carry over. The decorator (@requires_auth) checks that the user is authorised in order to view the endpoint. 

In Flask, this would look something like this:

```
...
@app.route('/protected-resource', methods=['GET'])
@requires_auth('get:protected-resources')
def retrieve_protected(payload):
    try:
        ...
    except AuthError:
        abort(401)

...
```

As you can see, the route and methods are specified in the route decorator and the functionality is then defined in a function. 

To achieve the same result in Flask-RESTplus, you would do the following with the route specified in the decorator and the class using functions to define the API methods: 

```
...
@api.route("/protected")
class Protected(Resource):
    @requires_auth("get:protected-resources")
    def get(self, payload):
        try:
            ...
        except AuthError:
            return abort(401)
...
```

I find this approach makes organising the routes a little more logical since you can group all the required API methods (GET, POST, DELETE, PUT etc) for a resource together in one class. 

As you can see, the approaches are similar but slightly different. You still need to decorate the *function* defining the route. 

If you try to apply the decorator to the class, you will get an error saying: `AttributeError: 'function' object has no attribute 'as_view'`

There you have two ways of using the same decorator with Flask or Flask-RESTplus. 