---
title: "React Notes Continued."
id: "TIL 0066"
date: "2019-01-04"
---

Having now spent some time over the past few days getting more familiar with React, here are some more thoughts on the topic: 

* Use `npx create-react-app projectName` instead of the traditional `npm install create-react-app` -> `create-react-app projectName` route. It's quicker, easier and gets away from the challenge of managing global versions of npm packages. Read more about [npx here](https://medium.com/@maybekatz/introducing-npx-an-npm-package-runner-55f7d4bd282b).

* `<React.Fragment>` lets you contain a component without an extra surrounding div. 

* In React, you pass arrow functions for event handling when you want to pass parameters. For example:

```
<a className="page-link" onClick={() => props.onPaginate(page)}>
    {page}
</a>
```

* You can pass child HTML elements of a component to the component via this.props.children. Children is an array. 

* When managing events, essentially, you want to bubble the event up to the controlling parent. It's bubbles all the way up...

* In [React Dev Tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en) (which you really should install - its great!), you can get a handle on a selected element to evaluate it on the Dev Tools console via $r. You can then apply functions to this such as $r.click(); This is similar to, in the 'Elements' tab in Dev Tools where you can access and element via $0. Sidenote: I use the 'Darcula' theme!

* Props are what you *pass* to a component. 

* State is private or local to a component and is not shared with other components. Should you want to share state, you need to *lift the state up* to a parent component so you can share it. One-way data flow! 

* Components that do not have their own state are known as *Controlled Components*. Often times, if there is no state and if there are no extra functions within the component, you can use a *Stateless Function Component*. 

* Stateless function components can be easily setup via VS Code Simple React Snippets via: 

```imr```

* You can then create your stateless function component via: 

```sfc```

* There seems to be a fair amount of *lifting* in React ...and I don't mean weights :). As you grow your component base, you often find yourself *lifting state up*.

#### Lifecycle Hooks

1. Mount -> constructor, render, componentDidMount
2. Update -> render, componentDidUpdate
3. Unmount -> componentWillUnmount


`// note that render will recursively render all child components.`


#### Thoughts

As I spend more time using React, it strikes me as being a lot simpler in constrast to Angular. While my React experience is limited at this stage, it seems that React is quite *rigid* in the approach you need to take with it. By comparing the React Tutorial with the Angular Tour of Heroes Tutorial, React seems to do a lot less. No routing, no http. It is just a view and, it seems, is primarily concerned with passing props down and bubbling events up. But despite being less, it seems to me to make the app a lot easier to reason about. That being said, I feel that learning React is going to improve the clarity of my thinking when it comes to using Angular and applying these same approach there. Angular, despite being *heavier* than React, also advocates for one-way data flow and a functional, component based approach. 


Maybe it was a lack of AngularJs experience and not fully understanding the AngularJs ecosystem when I first started learning AngularJs all those years ago. Or maybe, to some extent, it is that Angular is more *magical*, but it seems to me that while React is a little strange to get going with at first, and seems a lot stricter in the way it expects you to code. I find that this is liberating and exciting in that you need to stick to some fundamental rules and patterns which simplifies and clarifies your thinking and reasoning about your code.  

