---
title: "Docker Housekeeping."
id: "TIL 0141"
date: "2020-01-05"
---

When working with Docker, it is a good idea to keep on eye on your space management. If you are building and running numerous images, containers and volumes it is quite easy to start using up a lot of space on your local machine. 

The following are some Docker commands I use to keep on top of what is happening with Docker: 

* Show Docker disk usage: `docker system df`
* List docker running containers: `docker ps`
* List all Docker containers: `docker ps -a`
* You can remove individual docker containers: `docker rm docker-container-id-goes-here`
* List Docker images: `docker images`
* Remove Docker image: `docker rmi docker-image-id-goes-here`
* Remove unused, dangling, "<none>" Docker images: `docker rmi $(docker images -f "dangling=true" -q)`
* List Docker volumes: `docker volume ls`
* Removed unused volumes: `docker volume prune`
* Removed all unused Docker resource: `docker system prune`

It is a good idea to remove unused volumes, images and containers regularly. If you build and re-build image a lot, it is easy to eat up disk space as Docker does not seem to re-use the same volumes. As such, I ended up with 269 unused volumes taking up an incredible amount of space on my machine! 

Fortunately, pruning my volumes cleaned up a lot of space that was being taken up unnecessarily. 

While we are on the topic of space management, another useful tip for managing space as a developer is: 

If you have a lot of projects on your machine that are not actively being worked on, or used regularly, you can delete all of the `node_modules` folders in the projects to save a lot of space. Depending on your project, even small projects can take up 300-400MB of space or more via node_modules. This is wasted space if not being used regularly since, replenishing the dependencies is just an `npm install` away.

I also found this [blog post](https://benmccormick.org/2017/03/28/the-mystery-of-docker-and-the-disk-eating-cow/) by Ben McCormick useful in terms of understanding some of what is happening with Docker on Mac. Up until I cleared out my unused images, volumes and networks, the Docker.qcow2 file in the Library/Containers folder on my machine was incredibly big. I did not need to delete that particular file, but once I removed all my unused Docker resource, I did need to restart my machine twice before Docker seems to re-calibrate itself in terms of the amount of space it was using. 