---
title: "Testdriven.io."
id: "TIL 0147"
date: "2020-01-11"
---

Last year I came across a blog post by Michael Herman titled ("Flask for Node Developers")[https://mherman.org/blog/flask-for-node-developers/]. Following along with that tutorial was the first time I used Python. Since then, I have completed two of Michael's fuller fledged courses. Namely: 

1. [Test-Driven Development with Python, Flask and Docker](https://testdriven.io/courses/tdd-flask/)
2. [Authentication with Flask, React and Docker](https://testdriven.io/courses/auth-flask-react/)

If you are an aspiring Python (or React) developer and want a solid introduction into how to develop in a truly test-driven approach that combines everything up into a modern, Dockerized, CI/CD workflow I highly recommend his courses! 

The is a third course in the series titled [Deploying a Flask and React Microservice to AWS](https://testdriven.io/courses/aws-flask-react/) which I have not done yet, but I will in the near future! 

The great thing is that all three courses are expansions on the same application, so you really get a thorough work through of some real world scenarios. The difficulty with many tutorials out there is that they are very limited in scope. If you want something with a little more meat on the bones, video courses tend to be your best bet, but very few courses (that I have seen) take a true test-driven approach to development. It seems a little odd when you think about it because, taking a look at job posts and boards, unit testing is often one of the primary requirements yet there are relatively few courses that actually deal with unit testing or TDD itself. 

My feeling is that Michael and his team have hit on a very valuable approach, I look forward to seeing what courses they release in the future! 